Promoting Oxygen Reduction Reaction on Atomically Dispersed Fe Sites via Establishing Hydrogen Bonding with the Neighboring P Atoms,"Single atom catalysts (SACs) comprised of nitrogen-coordinated transition metal (TM–N–C) moieties show encouraging performance towards the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). Nevertheless, for the reactions involving multiple intermediates, single-atom sites fail to satisfactorily optimize the adsorption of all intermediates. Here, a facile strategy is reported to construct Fe, P dual-atom sites in multimodal porous carbon (Fe,P-DAS@MPC), and its superiority in synergistically boosting ORR is demonstrated. Fe,P-DAS@MPC exhibits excellent ORR performance with substantially positive onset potential (Eonset = 1.02 V) and half-wave potential (E1/2 = 0.92 V). Theoretical analysis unveils the cooperative effect of dual-atom sites composed of adjacent P and Fe atoms, and the aiding of hydrogen bonding interaction can promote the adsorption/desorption of intermediates. Additionally, a Zn–air battery based on the Fe,P-DAS@MPC shows a high peak power density and exceptional cycling stability. These findings provide a novel avenue towards the design of electrocatalysts with dual-atom sites for practical energy conversion applications.",Advanced Energy Materials,10.1002/aenm.202203611
Asymmetric Coordination of Single-Atom Co Sites Achieves Efficient Dehydrogenation Catalysis,"Tuning asymmetric coordination of metal single-atom (SA) sites can provide a new opportunity for optimizing the electronic structure of catalysts to achieve efficient catalysis, however, achieving such controllable design remains a grand challenge. Herein, an asymmetrically coordinated Co-N4P SA site as a new catalyst system for achieving superior dehydrogenation catalysis of formic acid (HCOOH) is reported. The experimental results show that the Co atom is coordinated by four N atoms and one asymmetric P atom, forming the unique Co-N4P SA sites. The Co-N4P SA sites exhibit an impressive mass activity of 4285.6 mmol g–1 h–1 with 100% selectivity and outstanding stability for HCOOH dehydrogenation catalysis at 80 °C, which is 5.0, 25.5, and 23.1 times that of symmetrically coordinated Co-N4 SA sites, commercial Pd/C and Pt/C, respectively. The in situ ATR-IR analysis demonstrates the mono-molecular H2 produced mechanism over Co-N4P SA sites, and theoretical calculations further reveal that the asymmetric P sites not only can boost the C-H bond cleavage of HCOO* by largely reducing the energy barrier but also facilitate the proton adsorption to achieve the fast generation of H2 in Co-N4P SA sites. This study opens a new way for rationally designing novel SA sites to achieve efficient catalysis.",Advanced Functional Materials,10.1002/adfm.202207408
Unprecedentedly high activity and selectivity for hydrogenation of nitroarenes with single atomic Co1-N3P1 sites,"Transition metal single atom catalysts (SACs) with M1-Nx coordination configuration have shown outstanding activity and selectivity for hydrogenation of nitroarenes. Modulating the atomic coordination structure has emerged as a promising strategy to further improve the catalytic performance. Herein, we report an atomic Co1/NPC catalyst with unsymmetrical single Co1-N3P1 sites that displays unprecedentedly high activity and chemoselectivity for hydrogenation of functionalized nitroarenes. Compared to the most popular Co1-N4 coordination, the electron density of Co atom in Co1-N3P1 is increased, which is more favorable for H2 dissociation as verified by kinetic isotope effect and density functional theory calculation results. In nitrobenzene hydrogenation reaction, the as-synthesized Co1-N3P1 SAC exhibits a turnover frequency of 6560 h−1, which is 60-fold higher than that of Co1-N4 SAC and one order of magnitude higher than the state-of-the-art M1-Nx-C SACs in literatures. Furthermore, Co1-N3P1 SAC shows superior selectivity (>99%) toward many substituted nitroarenes with co-existence of other sensitive reducible groups. This work is an excellent example of relationship between catalytic performance and the coordination environment of SACs, and offers a potential practical catalyst for aromatic amine synthesis by hydrogenation of nitroarenes.",Nature Communications,10.1038/s41467-022-28367-9
"Atomic-scaled cobalt encapsulated in P,N-doped carbon sheaths over carbon nanotubes for enhanced oxygen reduction electrocatalysis under acidic and alkaline media","A one-step in situ nanoconfined pyrolysis strategy was developed to anchor highly active single Co atoms on the P,N-doped porous carbon@carbon nanotube coaxial nanocables (Co-P,N-CNT), which exhibit remarkable enhanced ORR electrocatalytic activity in both acidic and alkaline media.",Chemical Communications,10.1039/c7cc05476a
Boosting Oxygen Reduction of Single Iron Active Sites via Geometric and Electronic Engineering: Nitrogen and Phosphorus Dual Coordination,"Atomically dispersed transition metal active sites have emerged as one of the most important fields of study because they display promising performance in catalysis and have the potential to serve as ideal models for fundamental understanding. However, both the preparation and determination of such active sites remain a challenge. The structural engineering of carbon- and nitrogen-coordinated metal sites (M-N-C, M = Fe, Co, Ni, Mn, Cu, etc.) via employing new heteroatoms, e.g., P and S, remains challenging. In this study, carbon nanosheets embedded with nitrogen and phosphorus dual-coordinated iron active sites (denoted as Fe-N/P-C) were developed and determined using cutting edge techniques. Both experimental and theoretical results suggested that the N and P dual-coordinated iron sites were favorable for oxygen intermediate adsorption/desorption, resulting in accelerated reaction kinetics and promising catalytic oxygen reduction activity. This work not only provides efficient way to prepare well-defined single-atom active sites to boost catalytic performance but also paves the way to identify the dual-coordinated single metal atom sites.",Journal of the American Chemical Society,10.1021/jacs.9b11852
Boosting Oxygen Reduction of Single Iron Active Sites via Geometric and Electronic Engineering: Nitrogen and Phosphorus Dual Coordination,"Atomically dispersed transition metal active sites have emerged as one of the most important fields of study because they display promising performance in catalysis and have the potential to serve as ideal models for fundamental understanding. However, both the preparation and determination of such active sites remain a challenge. The structural engineering of carbon- and nitrogen-coordinated metal sites (M-N-C, M = Fe, Co, Ni, Mn, Cu, etc.) via employing new heteroatoms, e.g., P and S, remains challenging. In this study, carbon nanosheets embedded with nitrogen and phosphorus dual-coordinated iron active sites (denoted as Fe-N/P-C) were developed and determined using cutting edge techniques. Both experimental and theoretical results suggested that the N and P dual-coordinated iron sites were favorable for oxygen intermediate adsorption/desorption, resulting in accelerated reaction kinetics and promising catalytic oxygen reduction activity. This work not only provides efficient way to prepare well-defined single-atom active sites to boost catalytic performance but also paves the way to identify the dual-coordinated single metal atom sites.",Journal of the American Chemical Society,10.1021/jacs.9b11852
